# AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio Code

The AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio Code, an open-source extension designed for Visual Studio Code, provides direct access to AWS services and resources within the IDE. Upon installation of the toolkit, you gain the ability to explore AWS functionalities directly from Visual Studio Code. 

## Manage AWS Resources

From the toolkit AWS Explorer, you can view, modify, and deploy AWS resources.

* Access AWS resources across accounts and AWS Regions.
* View, create, and edit Amazon S3 buckets, folders, and files, and edit supported files.
* Download and upload Lambda functions.
* Publish AWS Systems Manager documents.

## Troubleshoot from the IDE

You can troubleshoot code that references AWS services and resources from the IDE.

* Use step-through Lambda functions by using the Visual Studio Code debugger.
* View CloudWatch logs generated by AWS resources.
* Run commands against Amazon ECS containers.

## Write and Edit Faster

With the AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio Code, you can write and edit code faster by using the following features:

* Step Functions - Work with ASL files and render state machine visuals.
* CloudFormation - View CloudFormation stacks.
* API Gateway - Invoke an API gateway endpoint.
* Internet of Things (IoT) - Manage IoT things, certificates, and policies from the Explorer menu.
* CloudWatch Logs - Find, view, and export CloudWatch logs.
* Amazon CodeWhisperer - Generate code, and then scan it to help identify security vulnerabilities.
* Amazon CodeCatalyst - Locally clone CodeCatalyst repositories and launch Visual Studio Code in a cloud dev environment
* AWS CDK - Visualize stacks and resources that are defined in AWS CDK constructs as a tree view in Visual Studio Code.


From the AWS Explorer menu in Visual Studio Code you can:

* Manage credentials to display resources from one account to another.
* Create App Runner services to host and run container based applications.
* Create CloudFormation and AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM) templates.
* Create Amazon Elastic Container Registry repositories and App Runner services from ECR repositories
* Create S3 buckets as well as upload, download, and edit permissions and metadata within buckets.

The AWS Toolkit from the Extensions view in Visual Studio Code is available on [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=AmazonWebServices.aws-toolkit-vscode)
